>> Brian Holt: So I am so
stoked to be back here.
I love teaching in Front End Masters, and
today we're gonna talk about four
semester of Computer Science.
In five hours, in four hours,
however long it takes before
people just start leaving, right?
[LAUGH] We'll find out.
This is part two, not version two which
I have had some people be confused about
which is probably terrible
branding on my part.
This is in addition to the other one,
whereas other courses have done revisions,
right?
This is not revision, this is more
content, like Mark alluded to earlier.
You don't have to take part
one before you take this.
They're more or less bite sized modules,
hence then how you'd qualify a bite size.
Let's go self contained modules.
Part one will help because we'll
be talking about trees and
stuff like that, which part one covers.
But I will at least touch on it enough
that hopefully you can still get by,
even without having taken part one.
In any case, part one is really great.
I put a lot of time into that course,
I think it's worthwhile.
I'll leave you to be the judge of that.
I have up here the course website.
Which is a long URL, so
I made this bit.ly right here, bit.ly/fem,
Front End Masters, -4cs, all lowercase,
should get to this particular page, so.
These are all my notes,
literally what I have up here,
literally what I'm teaching
you from are these notes.
So if you get behind,
this is a good thing to refer to.
This will be open source,
well it is open source,
it will be forever so
feel free to share this with people.
Front End Masters is really,
really nice about stuff like that,
they're all about getting
knowledge to the people, so yeah.
This is open source,
you can definitely share it.
In fact, I would encourage you to do so.
Cool, so, let's just start diving into it.
We have ten sections here today, and
I'm pretty excited about this.
So, a little bit of background on me.
I'm a college dropout.
So if you're thinking why am I
taking college level material from
a college dropout, that's a good question.
I'm not actually sure of the answer
to that, but let me try my best.
I went to college for about three years,
mostly doing computer science.
And I absolutely love learning
about data structures, algorithms.
I was doing Java which is
not my favorite thing but
you know what, even Java is fine,
it was a good time.
Some point, I found out,
someone would pay me instead of me paying
these universities so I chose that path.
But nonetheless,
I still got a lot of these
computer science concepts down
while I was learning in school.
Then I transitioned into the development
world, I was a backend developer.
Taught wrote PHP for a while.
And then I kinda transitioned to the front
end space and had some opportunities to
know some really really amazing
engineers that were all self-taught.
That didn't have the same opportunities
that I did to learn these sorts
of computer science concepts.
And that isn't to say at all that they
were bad developers or anything like that.
I mean many of you here are already web
developers, you don't necessary have to
know these things to be able to
write React or things like that.
But knowing these things will make you
a better developer, I can assure you that,
computer science to me is
the science of trade-offs, right?
So it's a science of analyzing
some strategy or algorithm or
something like that to say.
I can either choose to go fast but
take up a bunch of memory,
or I can choose to use no memory but
not go as fast.
And these sorts of trade-off things right?
It's kind of given you language to
describe these problems, right?
And all those sorts of things,
so that's why I really encourage
people to go through and actually go learn
these sort of computer science concepts.
Cuz it will make you a better developer,
it will make your apps better.
And let's be honest,
it will help you get better jobs
because most of these stupid companies
wanna ask algorithm questions that have
nothing to do with what they're doing.
So this is also kind of
a FU to the companies,
it's like I'm gonna teach everyone how
to pass your damn interviews [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: So that's kind of
the kind of the idea here.
Yeah stupid gate keeping, I can't stand
that people ask some of these questions.
But now you're gonna be able to pass
them so screw them, okay, I'm not upset.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: This course is entirely
in JavaScript.
That's primarily cuz I know JavaScript,
if we're being totally honest about it.
But that's secondarily because
it's the language of the web.
This is primarily targeted
at web developers.
That isn't to say if you wrote Ruby,
you couldn't take this,
but that's why it's in JavaScript.
If you are not super familiar with
JavaScript already Front End Masters has
amazing, amazing material on it.
Just sit down and
just cuddle up with old Kyle Simpson and
just download everything that
man has to say, it's fantastic.
That's what I do.
He taught me a lot about JavaScript,
a lot about how it teaches.
I'm not gonna say borrows,
it's stolen from him.
So yeah, so
Kyle's books are all really great as well.
I will be using modern
JavaScript like ES6 and beyond.
I will try and explain those things as I'm
going through cuz I don't expect you to
necessarily know those things.
But again please check out all of
Kyle's material, it goes into ES6 and
beyond stuff really, really well.
>> Brian Holt: Last here,
I have a correction to
issue from the last course.
I said that Cormen's Algorithms was free,
that is not true.
I was basically telling you to pirate
things which I'm not telling you to do.
You should buy the book
because someone wrote it and
someone deserves to get paid for it.
Anyway, so Cormen's algorithms,
it's a book from the MIT press.
It's a textbook in every
sense of the word.
It's really long, its really dry,
its kind of boring but
if you go through Cormen's Algorithms and
you understand everything in that book.
You'll understand everything that you
need to know for the rest of your career.
So I do suggest it,
I've done it one and a half times.
[LAUGH] It's worth it though.
So anything else I wanted to go over?
There's other great
algorithm books as well.
I know Cormen himself
wrote a shorter book.
I think it's Algorithms Unleashed or
something like that.
I've not read it, but if it's from Cormen,
it's probably pretty good, too.
So, cool.